Ahh this was the question I was waiting for.

Currently I am enrolled in Computer science Btech and MS in Exact humanities.
You might be confused by what am I really studying,but in today's competitive world everyone wants to be an Engineer (I am speaking for India only) and those who are pursuing humanities do not find lucrative job offers.This is a major set back for humanities students. Its not only the case with developing countries but also developed countries its a major issue. 

Knowledge is no longer what is used to be. Now the accumulation of knowledge is done with respect to the return value, an exchange. Universities,which once used to be the centres of thinking and research are now based on curriculum which supports the capitalist industry, funding is a major concern which too is given so as to catalyse the industry. This is more of a disadvantage to humanities students with little or no knowledge of industry skills.

Coming to the point of kind of future that holds for a student who is a major in humanities should not be based upon job security but rather on the kind of thought process it shall inculcate within yourself so as to have a different kind of understanding of what's going around you. Taking an example of the kind of course I am enrolled in study of humanities and computer science gives a different perspective of looking into problems that arise even in technological aspects. Its not always necessary that you go by the conventional set of axioms and practices that go around these days.

Students now a days have an attitude to do things that are practical and that have a physical replication. Talks and debates about society, culture,tradition are stuff they think are not of any value.What they miss here is that they are born into the society, they belong to a certain culture and follow a tradition. These are the entities that define our great existence.The aim of the society must be to solve the differences so that we live in harmony.Such are the efforts that are remembered and followed and replicated across time and history. Students believe that a theory that does not conclude(as in the case of majority of humanities study) is a mere waste of time but they fail to understand that its the humanistic approach provides a space for free discussion and clear understanding of our world. Its all in the language game that science uses that we put our entire faith in facts and plainly ignore other possibilities.We think that we actually exploring the unknown but shutting the doors for other possibilities, in process of which we are creating more unknown and an illusion is created of a step towards progress.

 Humanities study helps in developing an attitude for deeper understanding of things and solution to it. What a humanities major student must be more concerned about is to develop skills of articulation and persuasion that not only shall convince a layman but must also seek to indulge a wise person into rational discussions and debates and seek for a consensus.

Bright and innovative ideas are fruits of deep thinking and different perspective which majority population of skilled workers are not able or rather not willing to come up because they are satisfied with what they are doing. To boost up your confidence I would also dare to say that look at the list of influential people in the world, you will surely find that if 50% are of industry, but then the rest 50% are people who have influenced the world just based upon their diverse thoughts and actions with little or no skills for a job.It is then when you become the job provider rather than job seeker.
